every software application has a
learning curve some applications are
easier to use and understand than others
but what you're going to find as you
become more experienced with computers
and software is that nearly all
applications have features or controls
in common with each other if you're a
novice with computers at the moment
you've probably wondered how more
experienced users can just sit down and
start being productive with applications
they've never used before and yes talent
and an aptitude for computers can be
significant contributors but what season
computer users know is that most
applications have basic things in common
and they know where to look for the
commands that will allow them to perform
the tasks they want to accomplish so in
this video I want to go over five
features that appear in and work the
same in nearly all applications the
first common feature is the file menu
here are some screenshots of the file
menu from several different applications
just about every application has a file
menu and it usually contains commands
like new open save close and print news
for creating a new document image or
project depending on what app you're in
open opens files or projects that you've
previously created are worked on save
saves the file you're currently working
on close closes the file but usually
leaves the application running and if
the application is one you can print
from like a word processor a spreadsheet
program or a photo editor you'll always
find the print command under file as
well notice I'm showing you menus from
both windows applications and Mac
applications these common features I'm
going to be showing you are not just
common across applications but also
across operating systems so if you're a
Mac user finding yourself working with
windows or a Windows user having to use
a Mac you won't be completely lost but
there are differences to be aware of for
example in Windows applications you'll
usually also find the exit command under
the file menu which quits the
application on Mac so you quit
applications by clicking the
applications name and then choosing quit
that's one of the slight differences
between the two operating systems but
they're always consistent with
themselves you'll always find exit under
file in Windows and you'll always find
quit under the applications name on Macs
that's a bit of a tangent but the point
is that the file menu is found in nearly
every application and within it they'll
almost always find the commands to
create save open or print your files the
next common feature is a group of three
commands named cut copy and paste all
found under the Edit menu
I refer to these as a single feature
because they really go hand in hand
they're probably used most commonly in
applications involving typing if you've
typed some text that you'd like to copy
or move to another location in your
document these are the commands you'd
use now I'll be covering these commands
more thoroughly in the chapter on word
processing but here's a quick overview
so cout is used when you want to move
text for example here in Microsoft Word
if I want to move the second sentence of
this letter and make it the opening
sentence I would select it by clicking
and dragging through it to highlight it
now the default layout of Word 2007
which I'm using here doesn't have
traditional menus like file edit and so
on as you can see at the top we don't
see those types of menus but you'll find
the same commands usually found under
file by clicking the office logo here in
the upper left hand corner so you can
see we have new open save and so on and
you'll find cut copy and paste here
under the Home tab
so I'll click cut what you can see
temporarily removes the selected text
from my document again in any other
application you would choose the edit
menu and then select cut from there now
place my cursor at the point of the
document where I want the cut text to
appear in this case it's going to be at
the beginning of this paragraph so my
cursor is flashing there and then I'll
click paste and my cut text reappears
again in any other application you would
choose edit paste so that's cut now copy
on the other hand leaves the selected
text where it is but just makes a copy
of it to your computer's clipboard the
clipboard is a special section of memory
your computer uses to temporarily store
cut and copy text so for example maybe I
want to create another document that
begins with this contact information so
I'll just select that and this time I'll
choose copy now it doesn't look like
anything happened because copying
doesn't alter your document in any way
it just places a copy of your
highlighted text into your computer's
memory after that you just place your
cursor at another location in your
document or into another document all
together and choose paste which places a
copy of that text into your document so
for example I'll click the office logo
here and choose new to create a new
document choose a new blank document and
in here I'll just click paste and
there's a copy of the text here in this
new document so that's the cut copy and
paste feature you'll find in many
applications
you'll even find cut copy and paste in
image editing applications where you can
cut and copy photos or other graphics
and paste them into image files feature
number three is another group of
commands that also appear under the edit
menu of most applications they are undo
and redo whenever you make a mistake
like accidentally deleting some text or
making a change to a photo or video clip
that you want to take back you'll more
than likely use edit undo in almost
every application you'll find an undo
command which simply takes back the last
change you made to your document many
applications even have multiple levels
of undo so you can take back the changes
you made to your document in reverse
order the undo command can also be a
nice safety net that lets you experiment
with your file without permanently
altering it for example maybe you're
trying out different effects on a photo
you're editing you can apply effect
after effect and as long as you keep
choosing edit undo between attempts
you'll never do any permanent changes to
your photo now redo is a little less
common than undo sometimes it's called
repeat and while you'll find undo in
just about every application fewer apps
have redo which is a shame because it
can be a very useful time-saving feature
it has two main uses first if you chose
undo but change your mind you can then
choose edit redo which changes your
document back to before you chose undo
in some applications redo can also be
used to take changes you've made to one
item and apply the same change to other
items for example if I selected some
text in a document and change the font I
can then select other text and choose
edit redo to apply that same font to the
other text so that's undo and redo and
again if the application you're using
has these commands and most do you'll
find them under the edit menu feature
number four is preference settings
almost every application has an area in
which you can tweak or adjust the way
the application behaves if you're using
a photo editing application you might
want to change the default image format
of files you save if you're using a page
layout program you might want to change
how page guides appear in your document
if you're using a page layout program
you might want to change how page guides
appear and behave in your documents
every application has preference
settings on Macs you almost always find
preferences located under the
applications name in the menu bar in
Windows applications depending on the
application you'll often find
preferences under the Edit menu but it
might be called properties or options
instead of preferences and some
applications
windows you'll find preferences under a
menu called tools or even under an
unlabeled button that looks like a gear
icon so sometimes you do have to do some
hunting around in Windows applications
but those are generally where you'll
find application preferences and the
fifth feature you'll find that almost
all applications have in common is a
help menu the how many O's where you'll
find things like the built in or online
instruction manual for the applications
you're using you might also find links
to tutorials or other special guides to
teach you how to use the application the
help menu is also where you can check
for updates which has the application
check online to see if any newer
versions of the software have been
released but generally the help menu is
a good place to go if you can't figure
out a feature of the application you're
using or just want to learn more about
the application overall and again you'll
find that most applications have this
menu so those are five of the most
common features you'll find in nearly
all applications knowing about these
features can really help make an
application you've never used before a
little less daunting because at least
you'll already be familiar with and know
how to use a couple of these commands